# rzitomer_edits.github.io

How Far Along Are We in Measuring What We Care About?
In our Argumentation and Communication class we recently discussed Oliver Roeder’s Pudding essay (https://pudding.cool/2017/03/home-court/), which details the causes of home field advantage in the NBA, with a focus on referee calls. I was particularly interested in a some of the variables that the author mentioned as potential causes of home field advantage but chose not to examine: the quality of sleep the players get the night before a game, the crowd’s enthusiasm inside the stadium. Presumably the author chose not to examine these variables because they’re nearly impossible to directly quantify (to my knowledge, there isn’t a good public dataset on NBA players’ sleep schedules). This reminded me of a podcast with Andrew Moore (https://www.stitcher.com/podcast/vox/recode-decode/e/55837116), a Dean of Computer Science at Carnegie Mellon, where he explains that the success of machine learning in industry is largely the result of an increase in data that is constantly growing in a positive feedback loop: as more things come to be quantified (particularly thanks to the internet), models get better, which leads to an increased focus on improving data collection. Its interesting to think about how far along different industries are when it comes to measuring variables of importance to them, and what it would take for each industry to improve and increase their supply of valuable data. One area where I’m particularly interested in the application of data science is music. I recently read that Spotify considers their weekly Discover playlist to be a success if the consumer enjoys one in every ten songs that Spotify recommends (unfortunately I couldn’t find the link to this article). This initially sounded to me like a very low probability of success. But the more I thought about it, the more I realized that it does make certain sense that Spotify would struggle to predict what songs their users would enjoy. While Spotify can quantify a number of important variables about their users’ listening behavior, and while they probably have a large collection of metadata about each song (genre, popularity, beats per minute, etc.), there are still so many variables that Spotify can’t quantify and that greatly influences whether someone likes or dislikes a song. Variables such as what emotion a certain song evokes or what memories it stirs up is important to a user’s enjoyment of a song, but it is not data that Spotify will be able to acquire any time soon.
